# Cucumber with Selenium Grid Template

A basic gradle project for automatic testing with cucumber and selenium grid. The report is generated by Serenity BDD.

## [Build](BUILD.md)

Read the build file for the pre-requisites.

## Usage

1. **Clone** this repository on your local.

2. Remove the **.git folder** from where you've cloned the repository.

3. On a separate console, start the **selenium hub** using the following command:

   ```
   gradlew startSeleniumHub
   ```

   > The selenium hub must start successfully before moving on to the next step.
   >
   > This will start the selenium hub service at port **4444**.

4. On a separate console, start the **selenium node** using the following command:

   ```
   gradlew startSeleniumNode
   ```

   > The selenium node must start successfully before moving on to the next step. 
   >
   > You can access the **selenium grid console** using the following url:
   >
   >  http://localhost:4444/grid/console 

5. On a separate console, run the **cucumber test** using the following command:

   ```
   gradlew test
   ```

   > Expect to see some activities on the console of the selenium node and firefox browser. If it completes successfully your setup is good.

# Sample Feature File

The sample **cucumber feature file** is called **google_cheese.feature** and is located in the following directory:

```
<LOCAL_CLONED_REPO_DIR>\src\test\resources\features\sample
```

> The **LOCAL_CLONED_REPO_DIR** is where you've cloned this repository.

# Sample Cucumber Runner File

The sample **cucumber runner file** is called **CucumberRunner.java** and is located in the following directory:

```
<LOCAL_CLONED_REPO_DIR>\src\test\java\gradle\cucumber
```

> The **LOCAL_CLONED_REPO_DIR** is where you've cloned this repository.

# Sample Step Definition

The sample **step definition file** is called **GoogleCheeseStepDep.java** and is located in the following directory:

```
<LOCAL_CLONED_REPO_DIR>\src\test\java\gradle\cucumber\step
```

> The **LOCAL_CLONED_REPO_DIR** is where you've cloned this repository.

## WebDriver

The only driver that is part of this template is **geckodriver.exe** for **firefox** and is located in the following directory:

```
<LOCAL_CLONED_REPO_DIR>\webdriver
```

> The **LOCAL_CLONED_REPO_DIR** is where you've cloned this repository.

# Serenity BDD Report

Look for the **index.html** file in the following directory **after running the test**:

```
<LOCAL_CLONED_REPO_DIR>\target\site\serenity
```

> The **LOCAL_CLONED_REPO_DIR** is where you've cloned this repository.

## Author

* Ronaldo Webb

